hello friends in this video
Let us understand why analysing time complexity is very important
We can understand why analysing time complexity is so important
Using this example assumed that we have to find all
the devices of a given natural number we can write
many algorithms for this
Let us take these two algorithms and analysed their time
complexity algorithm
One is using this for Loop from i till n
and algorithm two is using this for Loop from i
till square root of n if we assume one millisecond
time is required for the inside operation for input
10 the first algorithm will run 10 milliseconds whereas the
second algorithm will take only three milliseconds since it solves
the problem in square root of n iterations as the
input number and gets higher and higher
The time taken by the first algorithm is proportional to
input
But the second algorithm takes only square root of n
iterations even though both algorithms provide the same result algorithm
to has efficiently solved the given problem
So this is how a small difference in the time
complexity will make a major impact on the code performance
So writing an efficient algorithm and analysing it's running time is very very important